# COVID-19 Symptoms Logger Application
We are Team Arvid Krishna and the Funky Bunch, and we designed COVID-19 Symptoms Logger, a mobile application that helps researchers learn more about the progression of COVID-19 symptoms from the moment an individual tests positive until the time they are no longer ill from COVID-19. We created our app to address the current problem of policy makers, health experts, and researchers not having enough information regarding how COVID-19 affects different individuals and how demographics such as age, race, and gender can affect the symptoms that a given person experiences when they have COVID-19. When an individual gets back positive COVID-19 test results, they can use our app to create a profile and input their demographic information, including age, gender, and ethnicity.
 
When creating a log on the symptoms log page, we offer a speech to text option, using Watson Speech to Text, which also assesses a person’s happiness/depression based on the user’s emotions while speaking. Using this data, researchers can better understand the effect of COVID-19 on a person’s mental health. 
 
Watson Natural Language Understanding takes users’ inputted log text and finds terms to describe the symptoms. Researchers can analyze these Watson symptom keywords across the duration of the COVID-19 infection to analyze if any trends emerge.
 
The existing solutions to learning more about individuals’ COVID-19 symptoms mainly consist of seeking volunteers for research participation and collecting information from shared electronic health records. Therefore, the majority of research for COVID-19 is being conducted solely on data that is not easily accessible and difficult to assess. Our solution, however, allows users to keep an accurate, detailed log of their symptoms. Unlike current methods, in our app, individuals can update their logs as often as they like. Users receive a reminder from the app to input their data everyday, but they can also add symptom changes hour-by-hour, for example. Our app combines all relevant information between COVID-19 symptoms, time span of illness, and demographics in one convenient location. Because our solution is an app, it can be used anywhere. If a person is hospitalized with COVID-19, they can use the app on their phone at the hospital, which will also help the nurses and doctors be able to provide better treatments for their patients’ individual needs. If a person is in quarantine with COVID-19 at home, they can use the app to track their changing symptoms. In this scenario, the individual would then have a comprehensive symptoms log that they could share with their healthcare provider, so the individual can know how to better themselves at home.
 
With our app, researchers can extract novel information on how COVID-19 affects demographics differently overtime. Understanding these trends can give IBM Health employees and partners the ability to develop treatments for patients to improve their comfort and outcomes.

Figma Link: https://www.figma.com/file/EzfiUZzICmoPa6AKc4uAXx/Symptoms-Logger?node-id=0%3A1
